bookshelf/BOOKSHELF.md, before:

[back to index](../README.md)

# Bookshelf

*Bellow is a collection of books, articles, blogs, websites and videos. This list is only depicting what I would blindly recommend.*

## Books

### Language-agnostic books

- Clean Code (Martin Robert)
- Clean Architecture (Martin Robert)
- Working Effectively with Legacy Code (Michael C. Feathers)
- Grooking Simplicity (Eric Normand)
- Grooking Algorithms (Aditya Y. Bhargava)
- Managing Humans (Michael Lopp)
- Domain Driven Design (Eric Evans)
- Design Patterns (Written by the Gang of Four)
- Computer Science Distilled (Wladston Ferreira Filho)
- Computer Science Unleashed (Wladston Ferreira Filho)
- Seven Concurrency Models in Seven Weeks (Paul Butcher)
- Designing Data Intensive Applications (Martin Kleppmann)

### Training books

- Cracking the Coding Interview ed. 6 (Gayle Laakmann Mcdowell)
- System Design Interview - Vol. 1 & 2 (Alex Xu)

### Language-specific books

- JavaScript, The Definitive Guide (David Flanagan)
- Programming TypeScript (Boris Cherny)
- The C programming language (Brian W. Kernighan & Dennis M. Ritchie)
- The GO Programming Language (Alan A. A. Donovan & Brian W. Kernighan)
- Powerful Command Line Applications in Go (Ricardo Gerardi)
- Go Brain Teasers (Miki Tebeka)
- SQL Cookbook (Anthony Molinaro)

## Articles

- [Hexagonal architecture by Alistair Cockburn](https://alistair.cockburn.us/hexagonal-architecture/)
- [Hexagonal architecture in Golang](https://medium.com/@matiasvarela/hexagonal-architecture-in-go-cfd4e436faa3)
- [Bulletproof Node.js](https://dev.to/santypk4/bulletproof-node-js-project-architecture-4epf)
- [Colored functions](https://journal.stuffwithstuff.com/2015/02/01/what-color-is-your-function/)
- [12 Factor-App](https://12factor.net/)
- [Why threads are a bad idea](https://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/papers/threads.pdf)
- [No Silver Bullet](http://worrydream.com/refs/Brooks-NoSilverBullet.pdf)
- [Underlying principles of Git](https://www.alibabacloud.com/blog/a-detailed-explanation-of-the-underlying-data-structures-and-principles-of-git_597391)
- [Unpacking git packfiles](https://codewords.recurse.com/issues/three/unpacking-git-packfiles)
- [A successful Git branching model by Vincent Driessen](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) *("deprecated" flow)*
- [Semantic versioning](https://semver.org/)
- [Open API Specifications](https://swagger.io/specification/)
- [A complete guide to Flexbox by Chris Coyier](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/)
- [The X Y problem](https://xyproblem.info/)

## Blogs

### Companies technical blogs

[Stripe](https://stripe.com/blog/engineering), 
[Netflix](https://netflixtechblog.com/), 
[Airbnb](https://medium.com/airbnb-engineering),
[Uber](https://eng.uber.com/),
[Dropbox](https://dropbox.tech/),
[Spotify](https://engineering.atspotify.com/),
[Facebook](https://engineering.fb.com/),
[Google](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/),
[Microsoft](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/),
[Amazon](https://developer.amazon.com/blogs),
[Twitter](https://blog.twitter.com/engineering/en_us.html)

## Websites

### Websites for non-training purpose

- [Code Smells on refactoring.guru](https://refactoring.guru/refactoring/smells)

### Websites for training purpose

- [Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/)
- [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/)

## Videos & Channels

- [Mastering Chaos - A Netflix Guide to Microservices](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZ3wIuvmHeM)
- [What the heck is the event loop anyway ?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ)

<p><br/></p>

[back to index](../README.md)

Commit message:

Update BOOKSHELF.md (added BFF article)

bookshelf/BOOKSHELF.md, after:

[back to index](../README.md)

# Bookshelf

*Bellow is a collection of books, articles, blogs, websites and videos. This list is only depicting what I would blindly recommend.*

## Books

### Language-agnostic books

- Clean Code (Martin Robert)
- Clean Architecture (Martin Robert)
- Working Effectively with Legacy Code (Michael C. Feathers)
- Grooking Simplicity (Eric Normand)
- Grooking Algorithms (Aditya Y. Bhargava)
- Managing Humans (Michael Lopp)
- Domain Driven Design (Eric Evans)
- Design Patterns (Written by the Gang of Four)
- Computer Science Distilled (Wladston Ferreira Filho)
- Computer Science Unleashed (Wladston Ferreira Filho)
- Seven Concurrency Models in Seven Weeks (Paul Butcher)
- Designing Data Intensive Applications (Martin Kleppmann)

### Training books

- Cracking the Coding Interview ed. 6 (Gayle Laakmann Mcdowell)
- System Design Interview - Vol. 1 & 2 (Alex Xu)

### Language-specific books

- JavaScript, The Definitive Guide (David Flanagan)
- Programming TypeScript (Boris Cherny)
- The C programming language (Brian W. Kernighan & Dennis M. Ritchie)
- The GO Programming Language (Alan A. A. Donovan & Brian W. Kernighan)
- Powerful Command Line Applications in Go (Ricardo Gerardi)
- Go Brain Teasers (Miki Tebeka)
- SQL Cookbook (Anthony Molinaro)

## Articles

- [Hexagonal architecture by Alistair Cockburn (original article)](https://alistair.cockburn.us/hexagonal-architecture/)
- [Hexagonal architecture in Golang](https://medium.com/@matiasvarela/hexagonal-architecture-in-go-cfd4e436faa3)
- [Backends for Frontends by Sam Newman (original article)](https://samnewman.io/patterns/architectural/bff/)
- [Bulletproof Node.js](https://dev.to/santypk4/bulletproof-node-js-project-architecture-4epf)
- [Colored functions](https://journal.stuffwithstuff.com/2015/02/01/what-color-is-your-function/)
- [12 Factor-App](https://12factor.net/)
- [Why threads are a bad idea](https://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/papers/threads.pdf)
- [No Silver Bullet](http://worrydream.com/refs/Brooks-NoSilverBullet.pdf)
- [Underlying principles of Git](https://www.alibabacloud.com/blog/a-detailed-explanation-of-the-underlying-data-structures-and-principles-of-git_597391)
- [Unpacking git packfiles](https://codewords.recurse.com/issues/three/unpacking-git-packfiles)
- [A successful Git branching model by Vincent Driessen](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) *("deprecated" flow)*
- [Semantic versioning](https://semver.org/)
- [Open API Specifications](https://swagger.io/specification/)
- [A complete guide to Flexbox by Chris Coyier](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/)
- [The X Y problem](https://xyproblem.info/)

## Blogs

### Companies technical blogs

[Stripe](https://stripe.com/blog/engineering), 
[Netflix](https://netflixtechblog.com/), 
[Airbnb](https://medium.com/airbnb-engineering),
[Uber](https://eng.uber.com/),
[Dropbox](https://dropbox.tech/),
[Spotify](https://engineering.atspotify.com/),
[Facebook](https://engineering.fb.com/),
[Google](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/),
[Microsoft](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/),
[Amazon](https://developer.amazon.com/blogs),
[Twitter](https://blog.twitter.com/engineering/en_us.html)

## Websites

### Websites for non-training purpose

- [Code Smells on refactoring.guru](https://refactoring.guru/refactoring/smells)

### Websites for training purpose

- [Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/)
- [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/)

## Videos & Channels

- [Mastering Chaos - A Netflix Guide to Microservices](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZ3wIuvmHeM)
- [What the heck is the event loop anyway ?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ)

<p><br/></p>

[back to index](../README.md)
